Kuchipudi Village- The Dance Village & Symbol of Andhra’s Cultural Heritage

If you are interested in the history and the culture of India, the dance form of Kuchipudi shouldn’t be an unknown word. But not everyone might be aware of the fact that the Dance form got its name from the village it originated in i.e, “Kuchipudi Village” in Andhra Pradesh, where the brahmins practised this traditional dance art form.
	
About Kuchipudi Village

There are multiple things that one can explore around as it is a treat for all the art and history lovers. The rendition of the amazing form of dance, the famous dance institutes, the temple and a lot of friendly appearances that are available there do make it worth the visit.

I have seen Kuchipudi dance performances growing up, and I have always adorned the dance form through all these years. So, when it came down to the opportunity to visit the place where it originated from, I couldn’t hold myself back. I recently visited and also had the luck of meeting some eminent personalities and have collected an experience that I am definitely going to cherish forever.

Given that I have such a fantastic experience, I thought I would share the same with my readers as well. So, buckle up people.

How to Reach Kuchipudi?

Owing to the fact that the Village is located very remotely and in the interior parts of Andhra Pradesh, it isn’t surprising that it doesn’t have any sort of railway station or airports of its own.

Reaching Kuchipudi By Train
The nearest railway station is machlipatnam around 24kms away. You can reach from Machilipatnam to Kuchipudi by road thereafter. However, Vijayawada Junction is better connected to all routes in India, which is around 50kms away from Kuchipudi.

Reaching Kuchipudi by Air
The nearest airport is the Vijayawada airport, around 50kms away from Kuchipudi. For people arriving Internationally, Hyderbad airport might be more connected, around 300kms away. You can take a cab/ taxi from the airport to take you to the village of Kuchipudi.

Reaching Kuchipudi by Bus via Road
Kuchipudi can be reached via buses easily from nearby towns. Buses from Vijayawada to Kuchipudi are also available from the central bus stand at Vijayawada.Kuchipudi village is located around 50 km away from Vijayawada, making it perfect for a road trip.

The lush greenery on both sides and the smell of soil were infiltrating my senses, and I couldn’t stop myself from taking a halt and just taking in the view at specific points throughout the ride. It took me 1 hour approx to reach my destination, and every part of the journey was worth it.

History of the Kuchipudi village
Now that I shared the basics around how to reach there, the next thing that I would like to share is a little about the history of the place.

If history is to be believed, the village was priorly named as Kuchelapuram or Kuchilapuri. It gets it Sanskrit derivation of the name from Kusilava-Puram which means Bards and Dancers. The place is believed to be the originating spot for the dance form and attracts quite a good chunk of tourists every year to celebrate this form of art.

It is also believed that several archaeologists have been able to extract a number of Buddhist statues in ruins around this place in several dance forms. It isn’t a very likely thing to witness Buddhist monks indulge in dancing, but it is believed to be the power of this place that imposes influences on them as well.

History of this village suggests that every household in this place has at least one performer. Every person around is believed to know the dance form, and it is their fathers who teach them the same.

Priorly, it was only the male dancers who performed Kuchipudi, but things have gradually changed over time. The male dancers did dress up as women and play the character they were dressed as. I visited one of the famous institutes there named as the Akhila Bharata Kuchipudi Natya Kala Mandali, and the experience was one of a kind.

Legends believe that it was Vedanta Lakhsmi Narayana Sastri who lived during the 20th CE was the one who brought along this dance form into the forefront. He was the first artist who introduced this form of dance to the women and is now performed by women as well. The kind of dance was first made accessible to the Brahmin families and was later opened up for everyone to learn.

Why imbibing tourism in Kuchipudi Village is important?

While I did enjoy my experience staying and roaming around the place, the one thing that did strike my heart was the struggle that the families endure on a daily basis.

The village is predominantly home to around 12-13 families in total, and each of the family has a link to the dance form, either in them being a dancer or a teacher. The worst part is the fact that the majority of us common people don’t even know for a fact that the dance form finds its roots in this village only.

People here are struggling to make ends meet but have never once complained in their life because they find peach in even the smallest things that they have.

When I visited the village and took a tour around, it made my heart soar on how talented these people were but how limited their resources were. They have a monthly income of INR 3000-4000, which is not even sufficient to feed an entire family for a month, but they make do.

The best part of this was the fact that they enjoy life the way they have it. They are proud of their roots and even find it enough to get them through their life on a daily basis. The village isn’t vast, but it is beautiful in its way. The lush blanket of greenery around is what makes it stand out of the rest, and that was one thing that mesmerized me.

When I say that this spot is worth better tourism, I do mean it. There is a lot you can learn here, from the people and even from the kind of heritage that is present there.

The residents of this village are all culturally sound and even indulge in block printing at their homes. If given the resources, there are chances that their art and their culture can take them places that nobody had any sort of idea about.

If you are interested in block printing and like the styles and designs, they do sell the printed cloths in meters which you can purchase and turn them into your desired piece of clothing.

As I mentioned before, I did interact with some of the locals there, and the one thing that attracted my attention was the fact that they live a happy and content life without any kind of major diseases that we rush ourselves to the hospital for.

They mentioned that 95% of the population there hasn’t been sick ever since they were born, and none of them have issues with their eyesight. Do you realize how amazing of a thing this is? The primary reason behind this is because of how much of a secluded and pure life they lead. They are happy, stress-free, and live in an environment which is clean and devoid of pollution.

Where to stay around Kuchipudi?
As there is no hotel in Kuchipudi, you can stay in Vijayawada as it is the nearest city to the village.  You can even opt to stay in Amravathi, machlipatnam, guntur and other nearest towns.

Tips to know before visiting Kuchipudi village :
You should avoid visiting on Sundays as many people do. The village is really small, so you may not get able to enjoy its real essence.
Try to reach early morning so you will be able to explore in a better way and cover more places. There are some interesting nearby places like Bhatlapenumarru, which is 5 kilometers away, Pedena, 25 kilometers away. There you can even get a chance to visit the museum of block printings.
Do try the local food as they are cooked with the purest ingredients and the taste would certainly leave you wanting for more.
Try to be generous when talking or interacting with the locals.

Final thoughts about Kuchipudi village
If you are a culture and art geek, visiting the Kuchipudi village will ingrain a whole new level of respect for the dance form. The place itself is very soothing and very relaxing if that is something you want to experience apart from your fast and hectic lifestyle.


























